How to Make Games for Game Boy - Sound Effects - GBDK 2020 Retro Homebrew Tutorial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1hwf7CNpUR0

Introduction to Sound Effects
Audio is an underappreciated aspect of games and entertainment.
Good sounds help connect the player with your game's world.
It engages one more sense, making the overall experience that much better.
In my previous tutorials, we drew background sprites and handled Joy
pad input.
Larold's Jubilant Junkyard Intro
In this tutorial, I'll show you how to play
simple sound effects
if you need help in this material.
Check out my website or one of the links in the description below.
Getting Started with Sound Effects
The focus of this material is playing audio effects
to save time will avoid drawing anything to the screen.
This tutorial won't cover playing actual music.
I'll save that for a later tutorial.
The sounds you play in this material will be very basic in
any four noises like jumping, collecting coins or taking damage.
With that said, let's get started.
Cloning the GBDK Minimal Template
Like in my previous tutorials,
we'll clone the minimal template provided in the DVD examples holder.
Capturing Joypad Input
We'll set up and implement a joy pad current and joy pad previous variable.
Just like in the last video
with our variables in place will now get to the audio aspect of things.
Enabling Sound
Firstly, we need to enable audio on the Gameboy.
Audio on the Gameboy is handled by a variety of different noise registers.
Sound Register Explanations
We can enable audio by setting noise registers 5051
and 52 Noise register 52 will enable sound
noise Register 50
Sets the volume for the left and right speakers.
There are four different channels or modes
for playing sounds on with noise Register 51.
You can toggle one of the four channels on or off on either side.
The current code will enable sound set
both speakers to maximum volume and enable all four channels on both sides.
These registers need to be set in that order.
We'll keep this video quick and easy.
We're going to pull for joy pad input and we'll play one of four different sounds
Setting up joypad inputs
we'll set up for if statements
and these if statements like in the previous video
we'll check out the user has just pressed the a, B
start or select buttons
with those.
If they've been set up, they can play our actual sounds. Now
playing basic sounds
and GBDK just requires us to set some registers.
The hardware and GBDK will do the rest for us.
The Gameboy has four different channels for playing different sounds
and each channel has its own 4 to 5 different registers associated with it.
Channels one into the pulse channels
produce pulse with modulated waves.
The first channel uses noise registers ten through 14
Adding sounds with noise registers
and the second channel uses noise registers 21 to 24.
Channel three.
The Wave Channel uses noise registers 30 to 34 to produce
arbitrary user supplied waves.
Channel four is the noise channel.
It uses registers 41 to 44 to produce pseudo random waves.
For more information on the game by hardware,
its audio capabilities, check out the Game Boy paradox.
Once we've added that logic to our statements,
Previewing our demo
we can compile and run our code.
We'll see different sounds playing when we push different buttons.
GBDK Sound ROM
It's not intuitive what values to use for each of these channels.
So GBDK has an example that allows you to experiment in real time.
If you go back to your GBDK folder and look in the Gameboy examples
subfolder, you'll find a folder called sound.
If we compile and run this example, you'll be presented
with a basic user interface for making sounds.
Press Select the change between sound channels called sound modes.
Use left and right buttons to change the selected values.
Press Start to preview the current sound
when you've found something you like.
On the bottom
you'll see which registers and hex values to use for the living registers.
You now have the knowledge and tools to add basic sound effects to your game.
Need Help and Site Mention
As always.
Do you have any questions?
You can contact me via email in the video comments or in the GBDK discord
like and subscribe for more game Boy game development videos.
Additionally, check out my website for more tutorials.
At the time of this recording, my latest tutorial shows you how
to recreate Zelda style for directional movement.
Thank you and have a good day.
