How To Make a Game For Gameboy - Creating the Minimal Project with GBDK 2020
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MMtd0VcwUgc

Introduction
The nintendo Gameboy was first released
in 1989 despite being over 30 years old.
Game Boy isn't dead yet.
Even in 2022, many game developers still make and publish games
for this retro epic console and this tutorial series.
I'm going to teach you how to make your own Gameboy games using the 2020 version.
The TBD came.
Larold's Jubilant Junkyard Intro
This the term requires you have knowledge of the
C programing language for or inability to learn as you go.
GB Studio
If you like a code free route, you may prefer a program called GBE Studio.
GBE Studio is a very capable, UI based Gameboy game
creator Portal Income Description for GB Studio.
If you're interested
in this video, we'll start by downloading the DVD K
and compiling a basic ROM file using the minimal template.
Downloading GBDK 2020
Open up your web browser of choice and search for GB K 2020.
One of the first result should be the GB K 2020
GitHub page, which you can also find in this video description.
On the
right side of my GitHub page, click the link for the latest release.
At the bottom of that release page, choose and download
the archive for your computer's operating system.
Extracting GBDK 2020
Once downloaded, we simply need to extract the GB
K folder to somewhere easily accessible.
I'm running on a Windows PC and I put my folder directly on the C drive.
Finding the Minimal Gameboy Example
Inside this folder, navigate to the examples folder.
Here you'll see another list of folders, one for each
platform supported by TBD. K.
The focus of this material theory is making Gameboy games,
so go into the GB folder and then into the template underscore minimal folder.
This template is a great starting point for making your Gameboy game
if you're running on a Windows PC.
Before we can compile our minimal template,
you may need to install one additional piece of software.
Many of the examples
for duplicate utilize make files for compilation.
Compiling the Gameboy ROM
You can determine if Makefile execution is supported on your computer
by simply typing make any command prompt.
If you see any errors, then check out this video description
for a link on getting make for windows.
Once you can run the make files can simply use
the make command to generate an example that TB rom file.
Running the ROM file in a Gameboy Emulator
We can open this file in any Gameboy emulator.
My preference is BG be, I'll post
links for it and some other emulators in the description.
If you run the example down GB file on your Gameboy emulator,
you should see just a blank screen and later tutorials.
I'll explain what's going on in the code and how to turn it into an actual game.
That's it for this video tutorial.
I also have free written tutorials on my website.
Lairds Jubilant Junkyard XCOM like unsubscribe if you find this helpful.
Thanks for watching and have a good day.

