Imgaine IE
24-Apr-2026

Tech Support		1 800 938 100
Sales			1 800 938 999
IMPORTANT Qs
"Will I have an external antenna installed like my current setup, or is this just a SIM router indoors?"
"Are you offering me the 5G FWA with an external antenna, or only the SIM-based 5G Home plans?"

Q. 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) alternative - is this Unlimited data??
"Does the router have at least 4 LAN ports?"

Can we re-use the same ethernet cables from the dish - that would be replaced with antennas?
i.e. minimal disruption

How long will new FWA replace old FWA - i.e. how long before Fibre upgrade feasible for region? 


If they only offer these two → you’re moving to mobile broadband
If they offer 5G FWA → that’s the closest replacement to what you had

"Is this SIM-based 5G or external antenna FWA?"
"Will I get an outdoor receiver installed?"
"What are minimum guaranteed speeds, not ‘up to’?"
"Can I trial it or exit if performance is worse?"

5G FWA with antenna:
That’s the closest equivalent




27-Apr-2026
Chat GPT
if this LTE antenna is an FWA service that is being phased out then why - on this thread - is there mention of a replacement 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) ? You say it is "same" but different under the hood, correct?


LTE
Current white box != just antenna = Antenna + Modem + Radio [LTE-specific HW]


"FWA" (Fixed Wireless Access) is just a type of service
LTE vs 5G is the technology used to deliver it

Type: FWA (same concept)
Technology: 5G (newer system)
Hardware: newer antenna + Ethernet


LTE-based network		OLD tech
radio equipment on masts
25-Apr-2026
Chat GPT
imagine.ie Internet Service Provider are phasing out their LTE service
which is satellite dish with wired cable into router
they say they are replacing with the fibre network which we don't have the networking infrastructure 
therefore they said they offer the following replacement services for their 
5G Broadband Plans
5G Home Basic     Speeds up to 300Mbps – €40/month
5G Home Unlimited Speeds up to 300Mbps – €50/month
5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA)


"LTE dish" wasn’t satellite
Even though it looked like a satellite dish, it wasn’t satellite internet.

It was Fixed Wireless Access (FWA):

Small antenna on your house
Connected to a nearby mast (line-of-sight)
Cable into your router indoors
No mobile SIM needed

That setup is exactly how Imagine Broadband built its rural network.
It was dedicated wireless broadband, not mobile broadband.


Alternatives

5G Home (Basic / Unlimited)
This is mobile broadband in a router

Uses a SIM card + 5G mobile network
No external dish required (usually)
Plug-and-play router


5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA)
Still wireless to a mast
But uses newer 5G tech instead of LTE
May include an external antenna again

More stable than indoor 5G routers
Better for rural homes
Still shared bandwidth



IMPORTANT
FWA != FWA

Eircode is A67 YP80 - sounds like what we had i.e. LTE service - which is being phased out permanently
is a FWA i.e. 5G Fixed Wireless Access service - they said in the email alternatives going forward include Fibre 
[not available to us yet] or other 5G Broadband Plans e.g. SIM option - or their new alternative 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA)
if LTE is a FWA service and it's being phased out then why are the offering as alternative 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) 
isn't it the same setup i.e. with antenna etc.?


Yes, both LTE and 5G FWA are “Fixed Wireless Access”
But they are not the same system under the hood

2x 5G
5G Home Broadband (SIM router)
5G FWA (the proper replacement)
This is what you want if fibre isn’t available.


Region
A good external antenna setup matters a lot
Indoor 5G routers can struggle in rural/semi-rural spots

Best option (non-fibre): 5G FWA with antenna
Risky option: SIM-based 5G Home broadband


5G Home Basic     Speeds up to 300Mbps – €40/month
5G Home Unlimited Speeds up to 300Mbps – €50/month
are both SIM-based 5G mobile broadband in a router?


5G Home Basic
5G Home Unlimited

A router with a SIM card inside
It connects to a nearby 5G mobile mast
No standard external antenna install (unless you request/add one separately)



If they are offering 5G FWA with antenna replacement and you are saying that is the closest replacement to what I had then what about range i.e. do I get the same WiFi range as I had on the existing LTE service for devices in the house?


Two separate things (this is the key distinction)
1) The internet link to your house
Old: LTE FWA (dish → mast)
New: 5G FWA (antenna → mast)



If we already have an existing ethernet cable going from inside the property thru an existing hole up to the dish then can 
Imagine reuse the existing ethernet cable from inside and attach to the replacement antenna instead of the dish
which is being replaced so as to NOT drill another hole in the property?

When reuse is possible (very common)
Installers will usually reuse your existing setup if:

The cable is standard Ethernet (Cat5e or Cat6)
It’s in good condition (not weather-damaged or brittle)
It supports PoE (Power over Ethernet) — most do
The length/run is suitable for the new antenna location

In that case, they’ll:

Remove the old dish
Mount the new 5G antenna
Plug it into the same cable
Feed it into your existing router location

No new drilling
Minimal disruption