CoSeCiVi17_paper_14
10/12/2020

Video games are an interesting field of study for many Artificial Intelligence (AI) researchers,
since they provide complex but controlled environments in which many AI techniques can be studied and tested

for example: Pacman
PacMan may seem simple compared to some other kinds of [video] games, its special features make it a perfect target
for AI researchers

Thge game is simple enough to be quickly understood and it does not require a very powerful machine to be run

One approach to train automatic bots to play video games, like Pacman, is Reinforcement Learning (RL):
RL algorithms learn policies that associate "good" actions to execute in different game states based
on rewards obtained during the game simulation


3.2 Reinforcement Learning
RL tries to solve the problem of finding sequences of actions an agent should take in order to maximize some numerical reward.
The agent is not told about what actions to take, but instead it has to discover which one returns the biggest reward in the long term by trial and error

An RL agent interacts with the environment in discrete time steps, in each which it will receive a representation of such environment known as a state.

The agent must choose then the best action to execute in the current state.  That action will lead it to a new state, and then the agent will receive a reward.  The goal of the agent is to maximuze total reward obtained during a simulation.
Note that the optimal action might not be the one that maximizes the instant reward (greedy approach), but other action that allows to obtain a higher total reward during the simulation.


6 Related work and conclusions
Reinforcement Learning has also been used in other domains such as First Person Shooters [FPS]
e.g.
Lample, G., Chaplot, D.S.
made a very successful research of this area using the FPS game Doom.

Reference
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.05521.pdf

Lample, G., Chaplot, D.S.: Playing FPS games with deep reinforcement learning.
In: Proceedings of the Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artiicial Intelligence,
February 4-9, 2017, San Francisco, California, USA. pp. 2140{2146 (2017)


Today I download + open the source code in Android Studio
https://github.com/kefik/MsPacMan-vs-Ghosts-AI

Launch Android Studio
Open project
D:\Github\kefik\MsPacMan-vs-Ghosts-AI


07/12/2020
https://github.com/kefik/MsPacMan-vs-Ghosts-AI


https://youtu.be/-fD8t7tRjG0
https://youtu.be/4phEjPAGrbk
https://youtu.be/fftrYjzTLPg


INTRO
Abstract. Video games are an interesting field of study for many ar-
tiicial intelligence researchers, since many dierent AI methods can be
studied and tested with them, and later those investigations can be ap-
plied to many other situations.


Video games are an interesting field of study for many Artiicial Intelligence
(AI) researchers, since they provide complex but controlled environments in
which many AI techniques can be studied and tested. Video games are also very
interesting to compare dierent AI techniques and learn their strengths and
weaknesses.


Pac-Man may seem simple compared to
some other kind of games, its special features make it a perfect target for AI
researchers. Firstly, this game is simple enough to be quickly understood and it
does not require a very powerful machine to be run. On the other hand, in spite
of its simplicity, lots of dierent strategies can be applied while playing, some of
them more intelligent than others, so it is the task of AI techniques to discover
the best strategies


6.
Related work and conclusions

RL has also been used in other domains such as FPS
e.g.
Doom