DiagnosingDiabetes
09-Nov-2024

INTRODUCTION
768 records
500 healthy     Outcome=0
268 diabetes    Outcome=1

Ten different algorithms
Most successful
Random Forest algorithm 90.1% accuracy

Decision Tree algorithm

The model is designed with Decision Tree, Artificial Neural Networks, Logistic Regression, Random Forest,
and Naive Bayes algorithms

98.8% accuracy using the AdaBoost classifie
C4.5 decision tree, achieved an accuracy of 73.5% to predict diabetes

89% accuracy for diabetes prediction with the SVM-linear model


Ten machine learning algorithms.
in order of accuracy:

01. Random Forest
02. Gradient Boosting
03. XGB
04. LGBM
05. Decision Tree
06. AdaBoost
07. Support Vector Machine
08. Logistic Regression
09. kNN
10. Naive Bayes algorithms


EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS
analyzing datasets using visual methods to summarise their key features and seeing what the data
can say beyond the task of modelling or hypothesis testing

EDA aims to perform initial investigations on data before formal modelling and graphical representations and
visualizations to discover patterns, review assumptions, and test hypotheses


iMPOSSIBLE values
Glucose, BloodPressure, SkinThickness, Insulin, BMI
include the value 0 which is not possible in practice thus need to be corrected
all impossible values were corrected by replacing them with mean values at the pre-processing stage


DiabetesPedigreeFunction
function that scores the probability of diabetes based on family history
realistic range of 0.08 to 2.42

Outcome = target
0   represents healthy people
1   represents those with diabetes


Data visualizations
visual representation of quantitative data for communication and analysis

Heatmaps
used to cross-examine multivariate data, show variance between variables,
show whether any variables are similar to each other, and detect whether there
is a correlation between variables

Most variables are more likely to have non-linear relationships

Glucose is the best indicator of diabetes

higher number of Glucose, BMI, Age, Pregnancies and DiabetesPedigreeFunction
means higher number of diabetes patients
i.e.
higher probability of Outcome=1


MATERIALS AND METHODS
modelling process was analyzed and evaluated with various classifier
models, accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score performance metrics