Summary
29-Nov-2024

Top 10 AI Skills to Learn to Get an AI Job in 2025
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/top-10-ai-skills-learn-get-job-2025-zummit-africa-wabjc

Python
1. Machine Learning (ML)
2. Deep Learning
3. Natural Language Processing (NLP)
8. Reinforcement Learning
10. Generative AI


<u>Summary</u><br />
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is changing industries across the globe, from healthcare and finance to marketing and logistics. As we enter 2025, the demand for skilled AI professionals continues to soar. 


skilled
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/top-10-ai-skills-learn-get-job-2025-zummit-africa-wabjc


Combine AI "LEARNING" disciplines in professional + personal


01-Jan-2024		Year:2023
Future
The Top Tech Skills for 2024 corroborates this as specialization in the cloud computing market is predicted to grow at an annual rate of 18% plus Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning continue to drive innovations across all industries including using AI in Microservices; AI is becoming an essential part of the microservices ecosystem, enabling businesses to build and maintain large, complex applications more efficiently. It will be interesting to see new innovative ways in which AI may integrate across the Software Engineering spectrum


01-Jan-2023		Year:2022
Future
Ultimate goal would be to apply skills learned from C/ASM Sega Master System programming and some Sega MegaDrive to real world professional development. Of course, this is very niche and non-profitable!

However, low level systems application programming like eBPF, in Linux, is perhaps one of the very few development experiences available in modern day professional Software Engineering that it's similar in stature! Therefore, I believe this is something definitely worth investigating more in the coming year J


01-Jan-2022		Year:2021
Summary
Writing low level C code to target 8-bit Sega Master System hardware and now the 16-bit Sega Mega Drive it has proved to be very valuable experience for CGo applications which could assist in Go + Cloud Computing. The next challenge is port projects exclusively on Windows and include Linux system builds cross platform


01-Jan-2021		Year:2020
One approach could be to train automatic bots to play video games like Pacman via Reinforcement Learning: RL algorithms learn policies that associate good actions to execute in different game states based on reward obtained during the game simulation. Reinforcement Learning has also been used in other domains such as First Person Shooters like Doom.

Therefore, retro game development with Pacman and Doom clones seem like an excellent avenue to pursue with regards to future applications in software with Artificial Intelligence, ML and Reinforcement Learning J