AI is so smart that it's replaced developers. It's faster, cheaper, and more productive.

Except... that's a lie.

"AI efficiency" is just a convenient cover story for something much darker: a massive, multi-billion-dollar corporate panic. Big Tech took on a mountain of debt to fund their AI buildouts. But the returns haven't materialized. Now, with investors breathing down their necks and soaring interest rates, these companies are desperate to cut costs just to keep the lights on.

And software engineers are in the firing line.

But they aren't just axing jobs. They're destroying the code itself. Software development is being shattered in ways that can't be repaired. And it's about to crash the U.S. economy, taking the rest of the world down with it.

The early promise of AI software development was so impressive, you can't really blame the Big Tech companies for embracing it at scale. By most estimates, AI allows code to be churned out at anywhere from four to 10 times the rate of non-AI coding. In theory, faster output should translate into more products delivered more rapidly. That means more profits and higher share prices.

But faster code doesn't equate to better code. That's precisely where the problem with "AI coding efficiency" lies.

You just need to look at the code churn rates. That's the frequency that code is written, modified, or tossed into the trash. According to GitClear's analysis of 211 million lines of code, the churn rate has more than doubled since the adoption of AI coding began.

In 2021, it was roughly 3.3%. In other words, for every 1,000 lines of code written originally, 33 would need to be rewritten or binned somewhere down the line. The more time developers spend fixing broken code, the less time they have to ship new products. Ideally, the churn rate is as close to zero as possible.

AI was supposed to be the ultimate cheat code. It would increase output without a spike in costly down-the-line maintenance.

But the opposite happened.

By 2025, code churn had increased to 6.87%. More code is being rewritten or revised, potentially increasing maintenance and review costs.

And that brings vulnerabilities.

Veracode's analysis of between 100 and 150 large language models, or LLMs, consistently finds that 45% of AI code-generation tasks introduce at least one known security risk. In other words, just over half of AI-generated code passes even basic security tests.

Depending on the programming language and testing method, that number varies. Java is the weakest performer, with failure rates exceeding 70%. Python performs slightly better but still has a vulnerability rate of around 38%.

That might be acceptable if the result is a market-ready product being shipped quicker. But again, the opposite is happening.

A 2026 study by research firm DX analyzed over 400 companies. Between November 2024 and February 2026, they increased their use of AI tools by 65%, expecting a notable increase in shipped software. The results said otherwise.

The median PR throughput—the number of pull requests completed by each developer—rose by just 7.76%. The more pull requests there are, the greater the output. The return from AI was pretty pathetic. AI might let individual developers generate code faster, but it's not translated into shipped value.

Not even close.

The total cost of ownership of AI-assisted software is significantly higher than what it was supposed to be. A technology touted as a cost-cutter has turned out to be a cost multiplier.

A 2026 industry analysis found that the Total Cost of Ownership, or TCO, for AI-assisted software will be 30 to 40% higher by 2027 compared to traditional development. Fixing twice as many bugs is time-consuming and expensive. GitClear's data indicates that by year two of using AI to code, if unmanaged, it will drive maintenance costs up to four times that of traditional levels.

That's a huge amount of extra work for the human developers who need to fix the mess. The costs don't outweigh the benefits.

It's much harder and takes longer to fix code once it's been uploaded into the full codebase. If a bug slips into actual production, the problems become even worse. In addition to the extra engineering costs, there's also the possibility of security incidents, compliance fines, and legal issues.

In the pre-AI era, the main bottleneck in delivering shippable code usually took place at the code-generation phase. AI writing code was supposed to fix that. Instead, it just moved the bottleneck further down the line.

Because there's so much more buggy code being generated, review queues are clogged. Reviewers are forced to spend more time per pull request to ensure the code actually does what it's supposed to. And while generated code is sitting in review queues, companies are bleeding money.

Whatever savings were made from faster code generation are burned by the massive, growing overhead of reviewing, securing, and constantly rewriting that very code. In the end, somewhat ironically, AI hasn't replaced developers. It's created new demand for them.

To clean up its mess.

From 2022 to 2025, the tech industry laid off tens of thousands of developers. And that might have broken the entire software development process permanently. The developer layoffs haven't happened uniformly across all tiers of developers.

It's the junior developers, the ones who did the grunt work, that have been culled. Companies were left with a dilemma: pay an $80,000 annual salary or a $100-per-month subscription to Claude Max.

The companies chose AI over juniors.

Data from SignalFire and ZipRecruiter shows that entry-level tech postings fell by roughly 25 to 35% between 2023 and 2024. Big Tech cut new-grad hiring by around 50% compared to pre-pandemic levels. The trend continued into 2025 and 2026, with entry-level job postings down around 29%.

So much for "learn to code."

But that's only half the story.

At the same time as the tech companies have been hollowing out their junior development teams, demand for senior engineers has exploded.

In 2024, applications for roles requiring 10 or more years of experience rose by 27%, and roles requiring five to 10 years of experience rose by 40%. By early 2026, senior job postings were taking up over 41% of the total IT mix, vastly outperforming the overall market.

But this sudden job boom is misleading. The rise in tech postings might suggest a hiring recovery, or at least that the talent bleed has stopped. But in reality, this is a phantom recovery.

There's a "senior boom" masking a "junior bust."

The entire structure of the software development industry has been flipped upside down. Before AI, most teams were structured like a pyramid. At the bottom, junior developers were hired and trained, with some moving up to become mid-level devs and senior positions at the top.

Now, it's more like a diamond. There are very few junior devs being hired, with mid-level and particularly senior developers becoming an increasingly hot commodity. The very definition of "entry level" has changed.

The term used to refer to recent graduates or those with little to no experience. Today, "entry-level" job offers often require two to five years of experience. For real entry-level candidates, it's a tough job market—one that's roughly 35% smaller than in 2022.

So, why has the market shape inverted?

It's a direct response to the buggy and vulnerable AI-generated code. The companies that replaced their junior devs don't need them to clean up AI's mess. They're desperate for senior developers, specifically the ones who can find and fix the bugs lurking in the code. That's what the senior engineer hiring spree is.

It's an attempt to fix the mess caused by AI.

The junior developers handled the ordinary, boilerplate coding. They were responsible for testing and improving the code before even submitting it for review by senior teammates. That made the senior reviewers' job easier. It took less of their time and allowed them to focus on more high-level tasks.

Today, with 45% of AI code containing security flaws and twice as much of it needing additional work as before, the role of senior developers has changed. They've become full-time janitors.

Very well-paid and highly skilled janitors... but janitors all the same.

And it's taking its toll. Burnout is on the rise. Entire organizations are grinding to a halt, wiping out any theoretical speed gains from replacing juniors with AI in the first place.

But there's another, more alarming, consequence for the software development industry: the "junior death spiral."

By cutting entry-level roles, companies are effectively destroying their future talent pipeline. There was a defined career path. Junior developers worked their way up over a process of years. The only way to get the experience is by putting in the years.

Now the chain is broken.

In as little as two to three years, the industry might be staring at a severe shortage of mid-level engineers because they never had the "apprenticeship" phase of fixing AI mistakes. That creates a worrying paradox.

If there aren't any juniors gaining the experience to become seniors, where exactly are all the new seniors supposed to come from?

It's unlikely that the role of junior developer will disappear completely. Companies that chose to augment juniors with AI rather than replacing them already seem to be reaping the benefits. For some, AI can be a force multiplier. But for those companies that have been hollowed out by AI, it's the opposite.

It's a force divider.

And now, costs are spiraling while profits are flatlining.

Tech companies thought it was worth the gamble. It still might pay off. But the truth is that the tech companies haven't laid off all those developers because of greatly improved "AI efficiency"...

At least that's not the main reason.

The real reason runs much deeper.

The AI spending boom started during the pre-pandemic "cheap money" period. With interest rates at or near zero percent, the big tech companies piled on cheap debt. They wanted to grow their businesses and fund enormous stock buybacks, which pushed their share prices into the stratosphere. During the pandemic, companies like Microsoft and Amazon saw how lockdowns had changed consumer behavior to their benefit. They believed that the future would be more of the same.

So, they went on a developer hiring spree to start their AI buildouts. The amount required was well beyond their fast-growing revenues. So, they funded the growth with even more debt.

Then the pandemic ended.

And the bubble well and truly burst.

Governments across the world flooded the global economy to compensate for the lack of spending during lockdowns. Then, it came home to roost in the form of rampant inflation. The Fed had to do something, so it raised interest rates to slow it down.

Again.

And again.

Before the economy had time to react, interest rates had shot up from 0.25% to around 5%. For the tech companies, all that cheap debt suddenly wasn't cheap anymore.

And that's a huge problem for the "Big Five," who are sitting on $1.65 trillion in off-balance-sheet debt.

And it's growing.

You might think that with the cost of servicing the debt much higher, Big Tech might have scaled back on new investments.

They haven't.

In the rush to build out AI infrastructure, the biggest companies have doubled down. The size of the off-balance-sheet liabilities has grown eightfold since 2022, despite the extra cost of servicing them.

Meta holds the largest hidden burden at around $420 billion, nearly three times its reported debt. Oracle's off-balance-sheet commitments have exploded by 30 times to around $273 billion. Alphabet, Microsoft, and Amazon hold the rest.

It's a massive amount of debt.

And it's misleading for investors.

By keeping these obligations off their primary balance sheets, companies are masking their true leverage. Investors and credit rating agencies might underestimate the financial risk as a result, leading to inflated asset prices.

It's flirting with disaster.

It's the kind of "creative accounting" that was at the heart of the notorious Enron collapse a few decades back.

The majority of these liabilities are long-term leases for data centers, purchase commitments for hardware, and similar obligations. Unlike equity, they are mostly fixed mandatory payments.

That presents another layer of risk.

If the anticipated revenue from the "AI boom" doesn't materialize quickly enough to cover the interest, these firms will be on the edge of a financial cliff. Despite their current cash richness, their debt is so large that it dwarfs the GDP of all but a few nations.

And they're locked into these long-term deals.

If they can't break free, the financial weight will tip them over the edge.

Taking the entire global economy with them.

But arguably, an even bigger issue has emerged.

During the AI hype years, investors—including many of the biggest and richest—bought into Big Tech in a big way. They piled billions into these companies, confident that the ends would justify the means. The mega-returns would roll in sooner rather than later.

Their investments pushed the share prices of the tech companies even higher. Today, around a third of the value of the stock exchange is held in just the so-called Magnificent Seven companies. But that concentration is dangerous, and the smart money isn't falling for the "AI efficiency" hype anymore.

Instead, they're demanding that Big Tech show them the money.

And that leaves Big Tech in a difficult position.

They're all-in on AI to the tune of several trillion dollars, and plan to spend even more. At the same time, they're slashing budgets to peel back their pandemic overspending and fund their AI buildout. Those are hard enough books to balance under normal conditions. Add in higher interest rates and the pain gets worse.

Now investors are turning up the heat.

They want to see revenue growth, or at least a more sustainable balance between expenditure and returns until it does. That means mass layoffs and other forms of cost-cutting.

Anytime a company shows honesty, the markets react.

When Salesforce cut 8,000 jobs in 2023, citing "over-hiring" and macroeconomic weakness, the stock fell by roughly 32% in the following months. When Nike cut around 800 jobs to "enhance automation," the market saw this as a reaction to slumping sales and inventory issues. The share price dropped by nearly 35% as a result.

But if companies frame the austerity and layoffs as "driven by AI efficiency," regardless of the truth, the market's response is chalk and cheese.

When Meta announced massive layoffs explicitly tied to a "Year of Efficiency" and AI reallocation in 2023, its stock surged over 190% in the following year. Investors viewed the cuts as a decisive move to fund AI infrastructure, not as a sign of trouble.

Likewise, when Alphabet cut 12,000 jobs in early 2023 while simultaneously highlighting AI integration, the stock jumped around 5% in a single day.

A clear dynamic has emerged.

A 2026 study of S&P 500 companies found that 56% of firms announcing AI-linked layoffs saw their stock prices fall by an average of 25%. If a company says, "We are cutting 10% of staff to redirect capital to high-margin AI agents," the stock rises. The market hears future profits.

It all comes down to PR spin.

This creates a powerful incentive for CEOs to frame any cost-cutting measure as an "AI transformation."

So, that's what they do.

The practice has become so widespread that analysts have begun referring to it as "AI washing."

And it's growing.

Outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas reported that in May 2026, AI was the most-cited reason for job cuts. It's a category that barely existed in layoff reports two years earlier. A Deutsche Bank analysis from July found that mentions of "AI disruption" in earnings calls jumped 310% in the first half of 2026 alone compared to late 2025.

Whenever you hear CEOs citing "AI efficiency," you can be pretty sure layoffs will follow.

In early 2026, Amazon CEO Andy Jassy said that the company would need "fewer people doing some of the jobs that are being done today" due to AI efficiency gains. The statement coincided with a 16,000-person cut. Meta laid off 8,000 workers while moving another 7,000 to AI roles, framing the move as a necessary reallocation for an AI-first future.

It's a growing, unmistakable trend.

It might help to keep share prices at what many are starting to believe are vastly inflated levels. But it does nothing to solve the underlying issues with the hidden debt, problematic AI code, and a potentially terminal hollowing out of the developer force.

Based on current 2026 data from Goldman Sachs, MIT, and the Bank for International Settlements, in the best-case scenario, the current productivity dip is a temporary blip: the "installation phase" of a new technological revolution.

Some predict that by late 2027, AI models will achieve reliable agentic reasoning, moving beyond code generation to full-system architecture and self-healing. When that happens, all the issues with dodgy code will disappear. Development productivity will increase exponentially. The result will be a massive explosion in global GDP, which turns the mountain of hidden debt into a shrewd investment. And all those displaced workers will transition to high-value "AI orchestration" roles.

There's maybe a 15% chance it all works out this way.

On the other end of the spectrum, it all could blow up like the 2000 dot-com crash... only at a greater scale.

Just a few high-profile bankruptcies due to the $1.65 trillion in off-balance-sheet liabilities could trigger a credit crunch that bursts the AI bubble. Trillions in global wealth would be wiped out. Data centers would be abandoned, with energy contracts reduced to toxic assets.

As a result, the "Junior Death Spiral" would become permanent.

With no entry-level roles and seniors burned out by maintaining broken AI code, the tech sector might contract by as much as a third. A severe global recession would ensue, and who knows what the future of software might look like.

Unfortunately, there's a greater probability of this outcome at this point, although it's still relatively unlikely at around 25%.

The most likely outcome is a messy middle ground: a slow deflation of hype rather than a catastrophic crash, leading to a permanently divided market.

Sooner or later, the "AI washing" narrative will die. The market will stop rewarding mentions of AI and start punishing companies that can't prove their real earnings. Five to 12% of companies that augmented rather than replaced humans will start generating serious returns. The $1.65 trillion liability will continue being serviced but increasingly act as a drag on growth.

Big Tech will have years of austerity to pay down the hidden debt.

The software development industry will shift to a more or less permanent "diamond" structure based around small teams of elites using AI. They'd be supported by a shrinking pool of mid-level engineers, with almost no juniors.

The industry will be left with higher costs, a broken talent pipeline, and a debt hangover that will take a decade or more to clear.

That's the best-case scenario.

"AI efficiency" isn't a corporate buzzword. It's a warning sign of a massive economic shift. And if you're a junior developer whose CEO starts talking about AI's benefits, it's probably a good idea to start job-hunting.

It's not just developers who are feeling the pressure from AI buildouts. The architects are starting to crack too. Watch "Why AI Researchers Are Quitting and Panicking on the Way Out" to see the crisis unfolding behind closed doors. Or click on this.
