summary
29/04/2023


<u>Summary</u><br />
  There has been progressive interest in Sega Master System Homebrew as coding competition entries become more impressive.  Unfortunately due to time constraints, the game mechanics and level design were not able to be fully developed at this time.  However the foundation for potential future development did receive some incredible feedback from the community and Sega 8-bit preservation and fanaticism fans.  That is awesome!
  <br><br>
There has been progressive interest in Sega Master System Homebrew as coding competition entries become more impressive.  Unfortunately due to time constraints, the game mechanics and level design were not able to be fully developed at this time.  However the foundation for potential future development did receive some incredible feedback from community and fans of Sega 8-bit preservation and fanaticism.  That is awesome!
  <br><br>



There has been progressive interest in Sega Master System Homebrew as the coding competition entries become more and more impressive.  Unfortunately, due to time constraints, Lil Evel Knievel game mechanics and level design were not able to be fully developed at this time

However it was super fun making the basis of the game for potential future development and did receive some increadible feedback including [the following]


but here's my favorite


01.
Lol, those samples are hilarious.

02.
Nice scrolling demonstration, very fluid and very clean, and a good integration of digitized sounds, congratulations Steve !


03.
This game is ridiculous - I absolutely love it!

I never in a million billion trillion years expected to be playing a game on a Master System where I had to jump a baby on a skateboard (apparently the lovechild of Evil Knievel and Wonderboy) over bridges of turtles only to be rewarded by Austin Powers asking me if I make him horny, finally topped off by a speeded up Shinobi jingle. But, somehow, here we are.

A great showcase for sampled audio and a sign that I simply must build some into my next game. Also a copyright lawyer's wet dream.

Thanks for bringing a barrel-full of laughter to an otherwise grey and gloomy day Friday afternoon in London @SteveProXNA!