fixtures
21-Jul-2025

01.
How Pytest Fixtures Can Help You Write More Readable And Efficient Tests
https://pytest-with-eric.com/fixtures/pytest-fixtures

What Are Pytest Fixtures


Fixtures Across Multiple Tests via Conftest
A more efficient way is to stick common fixtures in a file called conftest.py where all unit test files will pick them up automatically.


Fixture Dependency Injection
Fixtures can also be called (or requested) by other fixtures. This is called dependency injection.


Auto Using Fixtures
If you’re looking for a simple trick to avoid defining the fixture in each test, you can use the autouse=True flag as an argument in the fixture definition.


Fixture Scopes
1. function: The fixture is created for each test function that uses it and is destroyed at the end of the test function. This is the default scope for fixtures.
2. class: The fixture is created once per test class that uses it and is destroyed at the end of the test class.
3. module: The fixture is created once per module that uses it and is destroyed at the end of the test session.
4. session: The fixture is created once per test session and is destroyed at the end of the test session.


Yield vs Return in Fixtures
You can use both yield and return statements to provide the fixture’s value to the test function, but they have different behaviours and implications.

When you use yield in a fixture function, the set-up code is executed before the first yield, and the tear-down code is executed after the last yield.


02. Conftest reference
Pytest Conftest With Best Practices And Real Examples
https://pytest-with-eric.com/pytest-best-practices/pytest-conftest

NB:
The conftest.py file will help us solve this. Luckily, pytest and other testing frameworks are intelligent to automatically pick up fixtures from conftest.py .


03. Autouse
How to Auto-Request Pytest Fixtures Using "Autouse"
https://pytest-with-eric.com/fixtures/pytest-fixture-autouse
Reference link above
i.e.
"Auto Using Fixtures"



04.
What Are Pytest Fixture Scopes? (How To Choose The Best Scope For Your Test)
https://pytest-with-eric.com/fixtures/pytest-fixture-scope

TODO - table
Pytest provides four levels of fixture scopes:

Function (Set up and tear down once for each test function)
Class (Set up and tear down once for each test class)
Module (Set up and tear down once for each test module/file)
Session (Set up and tear down once for each test session i.e comprising one or more test files)


05. Setup Teardown yield
What is Setup and Teardown in Pytest? (Importance of a Clean Test Environment)
https://pytest-with-eric.com/pytest-best-practices/pytest-setup-teardown

Setup allows you to create and configure necessary resources and conditions for tests like initializing required classes, database or network connections, defining test objects, fixtures or variables and so on.

Teardown helps you clean and reset the resources and configurations created using Setup. Simply put, it means to gracefully terminate the changes in the environment that you made to execute your test code.



50. Misc - parametrize
A Step-by-Step Guide To Using Pytest Fixtures With Arguments
https://pytest-with-eric.com/fixtures/pytest-fixture-with-arguments
@pytest.mark.parametrize

	Reference full article:
	How to Effortlessly Generate Unit Test Cases with Pytest Parameterized Tests
	https://pytest-with-eric.com/introduction/pytest-parameterized-tests

Factories As Fixtures
Factories, in the context of Pytest fixtures, are functions that are used to create and return instances of objects that are needed for testing.

Factories are a way to generate test data or objects with specific configurations in a reusable manner.

They can be thought of as a type of fixture that specializes in creating instances of classes or generating data.


100. IMPORTANT - do this at the end of fixtures!
5 Best Practices For Organizing Tests (Simple And Scalable)
https://pytest-with-eric.com/pytest-best-practices/pytest-organize-tests